Welcome back. I'm Dr. Chaps live in Washington, D.C. at The Return, a national day of prayer and repentance on the Mall in Washington.
Joined again by a returning guest and a fan favorite
Frank Gaffney leads the Center for Security
Policy, that is Securefreedom Dot Org. Frank Gaffney, welcome back to the program. Thank you. it's always a pleasure to be with you, especially.
On this occasion, in this place,
I know, right? This is an important day for the conservative movement, but also for religious freedom. And you have been fighting for...
to save the persecuted Christians. That's also your other website, savethepersecutedchristians.org. You work very close, for example, with Ambassador Sam Brownback.
I'm back, who's the international ambassador for religious freedom. You work and have advised officials in the Trump administration about religious freedom. Give us an update.
Thank you.
The update is unfortunately things continue to go badly around the world for hundreds of millions of Christians by some estimate 300 million to be precise.
Precise.
By some other estimates, about 240 million of them are being really brutally persecuted. The others are just.
Their lives are made miserable by people who
Think they can with impunity
Engage in various acts of
Repression.
In the worst cases, torture.
Rape.
Imprisonment.
Banishment
In some cases,
Genocide. And these are committed by governments against Christians.
Some are governments, some are entities like Boko Haram, for example, or ISIS in Nigeria.
That are doing it with
impunity
Basically because the government is on board with them doing it. But whether it's a direct
Manifestation of government policy or whether it's
People doing it.
Unmolested by government.
the effect on the people simply for following Jesus Christ.
is the same.
Horrific.
Terrible.
Brutal.
Persecution.
And you've discovered that
uh there are several ways to approach the problem we can we can publicize it we can complain about it we can alert the media we can pray uh and yet sometimes the most effective
Effective strategy policy wise is to get
The United States
President on board. the the administration sometimes has.
More power with a single phone call to cut that out
and leave those Christians alone,
And you've had advisory success here in the United States' good capital.
some I wish there were more to be honest with you but the principle is right in addition to the list of things that you can do obviously is the great work
That many of the organizations with which our coalition
Is intimately involved is is to actually try to relieve the suffering.
By getting food and water and medicine and
Clothing and shelter, and in some cases refuge.
For those who are being persecuted. But.
And with all due respect to the folks who do this and do it very courageously, often at very great personal risk.
That's kind of symptomatic treatment of the problem.
What we've been trying to do with Save the Persecuted Christians, as you said, is
A kind of
Systemic treatment of the problem, which is to say,
Create conditions under which those responsible for the persecution.
Realize
That there are going to be costs to them.
For what they're doing at the moment generally that's not the case
They can do it with impunity and do. But if you...
As you say.
bring the United States government
With its power and its prestige and its levers
like cutting off foreign aid. like. yeah.
sanctioning individuals like preventing their families from coming to the United States or going to school here or what have you.
Suddenly, it may not be as appealing.
A proposition to people who've just been doing it because it was
Easy or maybe popular in certain communities within their country.
And that's what we have to affect is that calculation by holding the persecutors accountable.
And by...
Creating real costs.
to them for their crimes against humanity. Well, one very practical example I can think of using your strategy.
is when Turkey arrested an American pastor, Andrew Brunson.
and he was
Preaching the gospel in Turkey.
As an American citizen, he was arrested by the government.
he was in jail.
Probably wasn't going to come home.
But President Trump made a phone call to President Erdogan of Turkey and said,
You persecute Americans, we will not trade with you.
And suddenly, turkeys felt the teeth.
of the American foreign policy. Oh, you mean we have to respect religious freedom?
They released Andrew Brunson within a month.
And he was back home in America. Well, if I could add just a little texture to this story because the broad outlines of it are right.
The call actually
Was one in which
The president was told by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the president of Turkey,
Rapid sharia supremacist.
That.
if,
The president would get Bibi Netanyahu to let
A prominent Hamas operative out of Israeli jail.
Erdogan would let Pastor Brunson out of Turkish jail. Oh, no.
so.
The president said no problem. He called his good friend Bibi Netanyahu and he said, look, I need you to let this gal out so we can get Pastor Brunson out. Bibi said, for you, Mr. President.
We'll do that.
Let this Hamas terrorist type out.
President called Erdogan back.
Erdogan said
Well thank you Mr President, appreciate you.
Getting her out of jail, but.
We're going to actually
Just...
Remove
Pastor Brunson from prison, but he's going to remain under house arrest. He cannot leave the country and we will continue our prosecution of him.
Oh my God. And the president said, you've lied to me.
And not only did he tell him that he was going to impose sanctions on him, he did it.
And when he did it and suddenly the lira, the currency of Turkey, was cratering and its economy and its exports of.
Seal and aluminum and other things
Were powerfully affected.
That's when Erdogan said, all right,
Let him out. Let him go. So it had to actually be done. And that's what's so important about this, not just this story, but in the macro.
You need to demonstrate your will.
To punish people. You can't just say you're going to do it.
And when that happens, I think there's going to be on a much broader scale.
real real relief for followers of Jesus around the world
So your observation is generally President Trump has been an advocate for religious freedom in cases like this? No question. Look, there's never been a president.
To my knowledge, certainly in the modern era, at least.
Who has not only talked the talk, but walked the walk.
About religious liberty.
And particularly about
Persecution of Christians.
Because, you know, there are lots of faiths around the world.
that are being treated badly. The Uyghurs in China come to mind, the Falun Gong.
The
Rohingya and so on
The sheer scale
And I think most Christians in this country have no idea, but as I said,
Over 300 million Christians are said to be persecuted around the world.
And that...
is a
A unique situation
It takes the problem of
Repression of religious liberty.
To a whole new level and we need to counter that.
With every instrument at our possession, and you've enumerated many of them, starting with prayer, but we need the U.S. government to use its strong influence as well, and we'll make a difference with the rest.
Sweet believe me. I'm totally with you. In that spirit, and since we're here at the day of prayer and repentance, would you join me in a word of prayer? A word of prayer.
We're clear
Father in heaven, we ask your blessing on Frank's work on the Center for Security Policy on SaveThePersecutedChristians.org.
And everything that
He is doing give him more influence father give him open doors for for meetings for uh the influence for whatever father we pray
Father, we pray that even President Trump
Would you?
Have a renewed attention.
toward religious freedom and persecuted Christians around the world that the American foreign policy would be first to promote our own U.S. Constitution, but right there at the top is the first
the First Amendment and the freedom of
And conscience, the freedom of.
Worship.
the freedom of religious expression that is enshrined in our constitution, we pray that would be america's foreign policy toward other nations who get it wrong.
God bless Frank and the work he does. In Jesus' name, amen.
Amen.
Hey man, mention your website and what do you want people to do? SecureFreedom.org is the site of the Center for Security Policy. Save the persecuted Christians.org.
.org is the site of the
Save the persecuted Christians team.
We'd like them to use these as resources. We'd like them to learn
What we are sharing about the condition our country is in at the moment,
And what?
People like them.
Regular
Believers or non-believers
Regular folks in our country
need to do to try to survive our republic and all the freedoms that our constitution guarantees. If they have a moment and would care to support us in our good works, we will be there.
We'd appreciate that. And I think you'll give him a bumper sticker
SecureFreedom.org. Save the persecuted Christians.org. That's it. All right. Our guest has been Frank Gaffney. Our website is PrayInJesusName.org.
If you can, please donate when you visit. If you need prayer today, pick up the phone and call us at 866-ObeyGod. Again, that's 866-ObeyGod.
O-b-e-y-g-o-d
Operators are standing by to pray with you.
or you can leave a message and we will call you back. God bless you in Jesus name. We'll see you next time.
If Dr. Chaps needs your financial support to stay on the air, would you please send your best financial donation today? Please visit PrayInJesusName.org to donate online, or you can mail a check to PrayInJesus.org.
to pray in Jesus' name ministries. Post Office Box 77077, Colorado Springs, Colorado 80970. You can also call us toll free right now, 866-089-3333.
That's 866-O-B-E-Y-G-O-D. Please sign up for our free emails at PrayInJesusName.org. Again, that's PrayInJesusName.org. Thank you.